hey everybody welcome back to nor the
lion please the Bunning of Isaac after
birth plus were doing daily challenges
yesterday we died what wait today is
International what day it's not Mother's
that how could you do I got a hunch it's
Monday May 8 May 8 2016 May 8 2016 was
it Mother's Day give me you got to give
me a moment here events I mean probably
there's a lot of them is my guess
holidays and observations that's okay
you know what Mother's Day 2016 give me
a sec here Sunday May 8 yeah so here's
what happened look I know the algorithm
for Mother's Day is a little silly it's
like the first second Sunday in May
unless the first Sunday is you know it
isn't feeling that good and it sees its
own shadow and then it goes back to its
hole and you get six more months of
fathers days but they have obviously
last year hard-coded that the daily for
Mother's Day was to be on May 8th and
then here we are doing that daily right
and a whole scheme of things it's a
pretty minor thing it's a themes daily
that starts like pretty okay but it is
really funny what I think the others
will know you know now we're getting a
little heavy to call it an algorithm I
think the rule for Mother's Day is just
that it's a the second Sunday in May is
that the case but hey you know what
maybe it's good guy Tyrone and Nicholas
that are like hey why would we give you
the Mother's Day daily on Mother's Day
that's too late to make a difference
instead we'll give it to you 6 days in
advance and then as a result you still
have time to go down to the Hallmark
store buy your mom a nice card or
something like that put it in the mail
you know okay I'll get the mouse pointer
off the screen she did give birth to you
so you know I'm not trying to tell you
how to live your life but you know maybe
you have a terrible relationship with
your mom maybe she's not a good person
maybe she never really tried to raise
you but
same time I you know for those of us out
there who were relatively lucky you know
you got a show where you care just call
her every once in a while mister okay
but anyway now that we know what's going
on and we have an interesting anecdote
about today's daily we can start to move
along and hopefully rank well the scores
today are not great from what I saw on
on greed but occasionally you're going
to hear like a little motor sound that's
um the Roomba is presently running and
banging into my office door I like to
think that it's doing an impression of
Billy Corgan from trak-1 off of Siamese
Dream he led me out well did he actually
he wants to be let in okay now I'm not
salty cuz again it's daily the mom
transformation is meaningless but
everything else is okay you shouldn't
give no item rooms because of the
quality of items that you've given me
it's not sensible no item is because I
have what mom's pad I don't think so
he's done it that's pretty great I don't
want to spend moaning I think what I
want to do is get 15 cents if possible
Kay so I didn't want to spend any money
there to go to the shop I don't really
want to spend a key either because I
want there to be an arcade on the next
floor we got four HP we can make that
work for us but at a top score today is
something like forty nine thousand forty
nine thousand on the run that goes to
mom's heart indicates that there is a
seam somewhere there's no hush fight so
probably a self sacrifice room on the
womb would be my guess
it might not mean that it's a bad daily
just that there's no conceivable way to
get a seam without doing the self
sacrifice room which often times you
know comes with its own damage penalty
anyway this run is actually fine so far
moldy bread is okay couldn't have even
started if you're going to give me no
item rooms start me with mom's perfume
buddy at least that gives us a tears up
it's something
it justifies the loss of a single item
room Roomba get out I swear to god the
Roomba pathfinding functionality I don't
know how they did it at iRobot
industries but they programmed it
specifically to seek out whatever room
I'm in and then bang on the flippin door
why do I have the Roomba on during
recording hours we'll you know very
simple actually we wake up pretty late
and then we record until it's too late
to run the Roomba because it would be
too loud for the people that live
adjacent and underneath us mostly
underneath you know and nobody ever
thinks about the noise that goes from
your apartment to the people underneath
you walking around you a little loop so
one I am time for my wooden clogging
practice ticka ticka ticka - why are
they doing why are they doing clogging
practice to a song that sounds like it's
from a Tostitos commercial is I don't
know dude you ever live in an apartment
these people they got wild wild
lifestyles you never realized I thought
people were like normal I'm not saying
I'm a normal person any other you know
obviously there are parts of my life
that are abnormal mainly my job well you
never realized we've had like the
quietest neighbors and then just at 5:00
a.m.
super loud techno music and I'm like did
you move here from Europe and then just
never adjusted I don't understand I'm
not saying never adjusted culturally I'm
saying literally does your brain think
it's like 9 p.m. right now and I know
some of you are going to be pretending
you're going to run the map well
actually with that would mean that they
live in Dubrovnik Croatia and that seems
unlikely given that they prefer a house
music to electro ok sure you got me
don't take that pill yet I'm taking the
pill let's go to the shop there's no
arcade we could use the spirit are just
to protect our self-interest here
I think this is worth using a bomb me
sack boys lovely obviously as tough call
isn't it because you know for a reroll
we could probably get a spirit heart
which could protect us however if we can
get three more sense instead via many
different avenues maybe not that would
be much better for us because sack boy
is like an incredibly good item I don't
like small room pin that's really our
moment right there I'm actually avoiding
the use of Mom's pad by the way because
I don't like the way fear shot BIG's
enemies behave unpredictably sometimes
[Music]
he's done it
counter ninetails is lovely you got to
go MA the void here and you know what
let's hangman just to make sure we're
safe I think I'm just gonna leave I
would love to get sacked I guess we
could look for a second secret room
that's fine let's get the heck out of
here it's still a good situation I got
lucky probably to not take any damage
there I think that that could slow
people down I didn't I did go to the
cursor moves adjacent to the adjacent to
the secret room okay I think we're doing
fine on today's daily I like dailies
that have late seams or no seams no seam
is actually my ideal daily despite how
much I love saying the word seam because
I think that you know my track record on
those basically speaks for itself not
that I'm like the master of unseen
dailies
however I'd tend to rank best on those
oh we got a check
that was actually terrible I tracked
that shot the whole way and still got
hit
okay that was substantial okay now we're
getting a little silly here now I start
to look for a scapegoat and I say Oh
one-speed what is this a Maggie run
there we go now we got our black hearts
that's fine
you know we screwed up our deal with the
devil chance but it was pretty low to
begin with it's probably our secret room
Oh interesting mildly interesting so
what's the what's the path to getting
the highest score on today's daily oh I
did I'm well sackboy would have been
part of the pack to be fair we didn't
get that unfortunately lock up to a spay
the spine let's take the pill range down
is irrelevant and 15 cents you get
humbling bundle humbling bundles a
wonderful item lucky pennies don't get
doubled so I don't think we whipped on
that one too hard we have seen some good
pills so I'm content to take safety cap
you know what
slow your roll mob the void is wonderful
it's actually a glorious item there's no
reason for me to be taking this much
dumb damage just as a result of having
it that's that's a bad excuse so I'm
going to go to the curse room it looks
through the extra room first maybe we
can generate a black heart or something
outfit
admittedly we could be like we could
have screwed up our chances already and
the way we would have done that is by
losing that 33 percent deal with the
devil chance most of the time that deal
with the devil chance is not going to
pan out and as a result we'll have no
lasting effects from it but if it would
have panned out
then we've upset that you know the
causality of the whole run so two of
diamonds is probably our best call here
to a spades gives us five extra keys in
five extra keys now you guys like that
song by Peter Molyneux Peter Gabriel
whatever steam stopped steam what's your
problem why are you constantly popping
up an alert like dangling sending me a
message telling me to play something
okay let's get the heck out of here find
Daly so far mistakes on this floor life
goes on you get the idea we got two
cents right now so I'm not going to
double anything we're going to try to
use that to I mean hopefully get a big
point boost for us now a lot of the void
on boss rush is awesome but I would like
to get something that raises our base
damage so we don't feel like we have to
use mob to void
notice I said feel like I have to use
mob the void because I don't think I
actually have to use mob the void I
think it is tempting but risky it's kind
of like using an orbital but I am using
it nonetheless because you know to thine
own self be true right so I'm also like
barely using mom's pad and again that
basically comes down to I don't trust
the way enemies move when they're
affected by fear but when they are
affected by fear they do not shoot now
my finest damage there
damage seller I need your finest damage
I'm headed into a daily you can't handle
my finest damage my finest damage would
put you in the quadruple digits did we
come down here with enough money to get
a an arcade could buy a spirit heart if
necessary but I would like in arcade so
we can access that room right there dude
we need well actually I didn't even
realize we had to luck that's pretty
solid but kind of feel like we're whiff
and in that department right now in
terms of like generating Blackhearts we
have no bombs okay that's the secret
room probably this is a big deal with
the devil opportunity
that was actually very close no deal
with the devil but a deer's upgrade is
nice and it's actually fairly
substantial tears upgrade as well and
you know we're doing so much damage
we've got plenty of time to get back to
we once belongs I'm bound get to get
back to where the item room would be if
it weren't Mother's Day except it's not
get back Loretta I said that's still
just funny like it's I know like I'm not
gonna rake another company over the
coals for like a small mistake because I
get the same things sometimes sometimes
like I I label an episode with the wrong
number you got to see my video manager
sometimes YouTube doesn't give you great
organizational abilities in the video
manager it's basically just it's pretty
great a list of the videos that you've
created in chronological order from the
time that they're uploaded and you're
going to say well why don't other
youtubers mess it up
not trying to shame other youtubers
uploading like four to six videos a day
here did you know if you're doing three
videos a week and you can't get the
title for you know the four types of
girls you meet in New York City right
you got a problem you know that videos
gonna have a hard time making it onto
the trending list the videos are like
let's play The Binding of Isaac after
birth Plus somewhere between 200 and 250
you know it just there's a lot more
uniformity there I'm not even saying
that's a good thing I'm just saying it's
a thing thing but yeah then somebody in
the comments will be like C and L
doesn't even care about Isaac anymore
you can't even bother you get the number
right just a simple human mistake and
you're looking too deep into it which is
exactly what I'm doing about this
challenge right here um look
I want the damage upgrade I don't care
about the range
Leflore beyond catacombs - I'm going to
buy the spirit art then as well I know
we could have used our money to double
it but I think we'll have a chance to
get more money later cuz of contract
from below we probably should have
bought one bomb while we were in there
now that I think about it that could
have paid dividends but still we did
this basically very couple of reasons
one is I like having an orbital the
other is it gives us a statistical bonus
albeit not an enormous one like gives us
damage upgrade the range is less
relevant but I do like a damage upgrade
and we actually now that I think about
it probably could have stuck with Cuba
meets or sorry a potato peeler long-term
but I'm sort of glad we didn't and the
reason is I HP to possibly play a self
sacrifice room IV bag IV bag with
contract from below is so much better
than anything else you guys I apologize
sincerely for this frame rate I don't
know what is causing it is it this
message from mouth that says this guy
let's see um Ace of Hearts I mean get
that mouse pointer off the screen Ace of
Hearts is clever but not very smart
right now so what is the right play here
it's very very simple
I don't think we need to stack up many
more red hearts but it would be nice to
have one more HP I know that's rich
considering I just got rid of some but
the idea is I want to still be able to
use IV bag on the womb to generate some
more money if necessary it's like the
first black card we've gotten in a long
time - of diamonds thanks for that as
stars card they're two of diamonds does
some great stuff for us we'll go back
for it assuming that we're not way
behind schedule it early in the next
room so we will go back for it but yeah
now especially with humbling bundle we
can get $2.99
easily moreover we can buy whatever we
want to buy from the shops which is
important as well we've been I wouldn't
say tight on money but a little bit we
haven't had unlimited funds you know now
we will get closer to having unlimited
funds if every time we press the
spacebar we lose effectively nothing in
gain for cents that's pretty good so
there's a 15 a couple of 15 cent items
in there we might hold off on my master
plan to buy everything for one more
floor just to generate more money to
begin with remember there's no item room
to worry about so they were pretty much
good to go as soon as you find our boss
room here which presumably will be
basically right now ma the voids doing
good work oh maybe not right now but ma
the void is doing good work and we
should have what we do have a 100
percent chance of getting a deal with
the bevel here so grab this and give
yourself a little bit more time sure we
could look for we could look for a
secret room a second secret room etc etc
we could look for the songs that remind
us of the good times you could look for
the songs ever - are the best times but
the big deal is making sure we can get
the boss rush so let's not you know miss
out on catching that big slice of ahi
tuna
we lost our orbital terrible decision
let's not miss out on that big slice of
ahi tuna just because we were you know
getting a new Led Zeppelin album cover
airbrushed onto our boat you know that
would be we'd be missing the forest
through the trees
so what are we looking for here
generating as many spirit hearts as
possible I also recognize that for all
everything I said it was so that is fine
it was so the wrong decision to take a
deal with the devil but I can't say no
to a deal with the devil you know curse
with a blind deal with the devil we got
to curse the blind boss rush right here
we got to do it might as well get
ourselves in practice you know oh I
really thought we had moved enough out
of the way I do find myself slightly
perturbed not because of boss rush
although that could be a little
cumbersome I expected you know if we
fight the hollow and destroy him with
mobs avoid you should be fine but a
non-hp survival at least however I'm
perturbed by my damage penalty so far
and I'm perturbed by our lack of red
hearts IV bag really I mean it's not
like mom's pad was really crushing it
for us in this department to begin with
but terms of space bar items we would
really really like to get HP so we can
use the one we already have
crickets head would be nice too keys is
largely irrelevant I mean a third-level
Meat Boy is also sort of like not that
good but at the same time we have mob
devoid and mob the void is sort of like
an orbital of itself you know might
sound ridiculous but it only does damage
if you're close to an enemy
it carries a certain amount of risk with
it as a result of that but it also does
a lot of damage that most of the time
tends to justify that risk in my opinion
at least
but it's Norbit Allah that comes with
the added benefit of you know possibly
generating some demon hearts for me
which in this case is like the world's
easiest no-brainer so for looking at
getting into the 40s on this run like a
Judd Apatow film that nobody asked for
what should we do well we should stop
taking damage you've actually to some
extent we've recovered from a point
standpoint I think being at 13,500 while
going into boss rush is usually roughly
around the right amount and tend to
think 13,000 is right amount there we
should pop to a diamonds then go to town
deep pockets is fine got to be a little
fast but don't sweat it too much mom's
purse is okay chaos okay that raises all
sorts of questions that I'm completely
okay with mom's eyeshadow and little
horn and then I guess we'll just blow it
up I just want a five cent item at this
point I suppose and secret room common
secret room location I don't know how
much we won there but ASA spades fairly
irrelevant to a clubs and I'm just going
to pop to a clubs give me the points
right now ASA spades if we need it we
can use it and then we still have enough
time to beat mom I would say yes not a
secret room we're looking to hit with
everything you know we want to hit with
mom's knife
we want to hit with mob d'void we want
to hate with Cuban meat we're totally
going to make it can we fight Krampus we
don't need to okay so take Polaroid what
are we going to take here what does it
matter right dinner
HP upgrade actually good for the first
time in a long time
a curse of the blind breakfast more or
less as soon as you couldn't even bother
to call the HP upgrade buy the right
name no but this is actually sweet
because when we get red hearts we can
create permanent polaroid invincibility
which allows us to get in there with mom
the void and hopefully generate more
black hearts out of the situation you
know I've thought this one through to
some extent
where you going right there I think
there's another turtling left maybe yeah
red hearts please okay so be timing is
not everything in this situation that's
really good as well
in fact in this situation timing is
almost nothing but the faster we go the
more points we are going to get we want
that do we yeah we do want that so we
can play The Ivy Vegas at this point
getting to 99 cents might be one of the
best ways for us to get more points than
some other people might have gotten if
they sort of like absent-mindedly chose
not to take the IV bag which honestly
would have looked like the right
decision many times over the course of
this good good good good good
I'm only going to use IV bag more
fighting the more difficult of the
enemies dude keep dropping red hearts
you are a beautiful creature
now there's also like this is a perfect
time to use IV bag for permanent
polaroid invincibility against blast
this is because we'd be expecting to
generate some black hearts now of course
we would be completely incorrect in that
assessment because we're naive
apparently gotta admit though boss rush
is going great so far
we could I be back there but I don't
know if the rules for losing a spirit
heart and then immediately regenerating
it point wise are the same as the rules
for losing a red heart and then
immediately regenerating it point wise
which as you can probably guess from our
score total seems to functionally have
no penalty at all the real question here
is who is the other enemy oh nice
permanent polaroid invincibility pop
it's war no that's low key you're silly
they do kind of look similar at the risk
of sounding insensitive
so watch out for enemies that shoot
beams this guy shoots a beam you got to
get over there nice no more beams
no more beams this guy's got to go first
little horn is irrelevant
he's dusted he should continue to be
dust I think mom's I killed in there
which is actually hilarious
I got to be honest with you six point
eight five damage we're making that work
I don't know what we've done to deserve
the amount of red hearts we've gotten
like we're actually almost getting a red
heart per room or so I per wave reliably
here which is not something I would have
expected in advance what do you think in
there buddy like come on but we are
making that work for us somehow now I do
wish you'd drop instead of dropping two
red hearts if it could drop for half red
hearts that would be more appropriate
for my situation that was also very bad
play on my part right there mmm
Donna damn we're fighting Dark One see I
know I know popular music was wild won
by that Kesha I don't know
case is not obvious thank God we do not
have to fight hush on this run because
unlikely to happen given the timing of
this run right now but up until I've
recently started playing really badly on
his boss rush we were crushing it for a
little while there and I was feeling
very good about our our world so I am
going to take the eternal hard book of
secrets it's not horrible but IV bag I
think really raises our point potential
okay okay okay what is our game plan now
well we've basically done what we needed
to do to give ourselves a ticket in the
lottery now ma it's not really a lottery
you know we we want an amateur
Invitational to participate in the
Masters or something like that or no I'm
making a golf analogy I got no
familiarity with golf though so it
presents a problem as I'm sure you can
imagine what we need to do now minimize
our damage penalty try to find a self
sacrifice room and then do every single
room so wait where did my I already used
two of diamonds I did use two diamonds I
was going to say my two of diamonds is
gone but actually it's a good thing that
well I mean it's not a good thing that
we don't have two of diamonds but it's
largely not relevant that we don't have
two of diamonds right now because we're
going to hit $0.99 regardless like
that's just a thing that is going to
happen
so we don't need it to have diamonds
what we would love is the two of like
literally everything else that was so
stupid
I could have just used the IV bag but
instead I didn't so the game plan here
you like bangle extent get invincibility
okay we don't know what the pill does it
might be perks now that I think about it
one bomb for two keys is the kind of
trade that we want to do down here even
though it might seem a little bit on the
irrelevant side I you know you never
know sometimes you're the high scorers
you're still separated by only a little
bit at the top there so we want to grab
this and we want to come here and grab
this as well
dopes smelted safety cap
sounds like a Magic the Gathering card
nothing bums me out more than using IV
bag getting permanent polaroid
invincibility to get aggressive and then
get null freaking black cards from our
mob the void plays so we next read hard
I mean ideally next couple of red hearts
we are going to go to this cursed room
and probably will up our damage penalty
but you know sometimes the breaks kid
sure I think we effectively lost very
little and we gained the slightest bit
of money out of it have I mentioned yet
how happy I am that we don't have to do
the well I might as well how happy I am
that we don't have to do the hush fight
we might have been able to force it just
by going very very fast but we would
have taken a lot of damage in the
process and honestly six point eight
five damage even with math avoid not
really the most compelling case to be
excited to fight hush but we are going
to look for a deal with the devil and
then we're going to go on our merry way
here we are able if we so chose to get
rid of the IV bag at this point but it
would have to be for a good cause and to
be honest with you the pony is a good
cause as much as it's not really an
amazing item
it makes us faster it has a useful
active effect and will cause us to get
hit less often so plus it might amp up
our ability to use mob the void
the other thing is IV bag is not going
to give us I mean that was so dumb of me
but IV bag is not going to give us much
in the way of other benefits we're
already at $0.99 we could probably
continue to get some bonuses out of it
in a way I think I am opting out of
getting a high score on today's daily
because I'm sure the IV bag has
something to do with that but
check for secret rooms
so is there a self-sacrifice rules is
there a self-sacrifice room on this
floor no so we really really want there
to be a self-sacrifice room on the next
floor think what you do drop these do
this play it once we do on studfinder
but then come back use ace of spades
have six keys hey dude that was like 70
points I'm not too mad about it all
right but the problem is if there's no
self-sacrificing run this floor we've
already missed our window without even
knowing that our window existed ever
since that one fateful episode where I
said there's no self-sacrifice room well
standing like next to the self sacrifice
room I prefer to double check which I
did not really do just then but got a
peep it another good argument for the
[Music]
that's fine
another good argument for IV bags that
we could open these mimics but I will
say don't pick that up yet the more red
hearts we have the better it is for
self-sacrifice rooms
if that's HP that can be replenished so
we're not going to be a bookworm but
we're going to be close
not that with the limited amount of time
on the remainder of the run there's a
great chance that that comes to fruition
but still really just stop taking damage
you're taking like 30 hits we have no
reason to take certainly we want Satanic
Bible but I'd rather stick with a pony
for now and then in terms of in terms of
the mom's coin purse actually sort of
feel like why bother
needless points sure there's a gulp pill
I don't think we've had any other pills
that I was I mean I guess HP upgrade is
a good pill don't need that yet anyway
stop taking damage this is what the
reason I'm taking damage now more so is
because they just and it's a very
immature thing for me to point this out
having full knowledge of the fact that
you know I know what my my flaws are in
Isaac but not taking any effort to fix
them because that would actually require
work so Kirk's is so good for a self
sacrifice room though so what my problem
is is that when you're early on a run if
you got 6.5 damaged who cares you're
crushing enemies left right and center
right later you get into a run you got
6.85 damage you're expecting enemies to
die more quickly than they actually do
you're trying to make up the difference
with these mods avoid plays but it's not
always about science just crush that
enemy twice it's not always working out
as quickly as you'd like and you know
all of a sudden you're kind of eaten
crap as a result that was close there
you might as well we shouldn't have
taken that yet but with perks it
shouldn't matter is the thing if there's
a self-sacrifice room via perks we can
get great value out of it so start with
the mom fight
Mobb the void being used mid-white Pony
is actually excellent that's not a
surprise to me I don't know do we really
we want lump of coal because there's a
self-sacrifice room we want ok this
regard but we would have wanted that
because it would have given us more
damage for the land floor and we should
be fine on the land floor but you know
things things change dude didn't think
I'd lose yesterday's run either although
it's a little bit of a different story
because the opportunity to lose
yesterday's run always existed who's
never particularly out of control strong
shoopdawhoop I would probably take in a
heartbeat but it doesn't exist man I'm a
little nervous because we're running out
of self sacrificing potential addicted
the opposite there's no self sacrifice
room what's a boy to do I guess perks on
the way out then yeah so that's like a
super bummer we're gonna have no chance
of ranking in the high 40s I thought
when I saw the score sheet I was like
there's no doubt there will be a
self-sacrifice room somewhere along the
along the path here that is a bummer uh
well crap
there wasn't one on the last floor right
maybe I maybe I brain farted I would
have come down one more floor anyway
though I like to try to push for the the
highest score possible in those
situations self set good place you will
know but you could give bookworm but
bookworm is irrelevant at this point uh
sweets I guess we're done happy Mother's
Day mom 2:36 it's not bad I guess a lot
of people fell into the same trap I did
for now though thanks for watching hope
you enjoyed the episode if you did click
the like button helps out a great deal
of course subscribe Yaron see more in
the future but for now thanks for
watching and I'll see you next time